fluent: docs: updating key concepts for style (#1482)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: concepts/key-concepts.md

---
description: Learn these key concepts to understand how Fluent Bit operates.
---

# Key concepts

Before diving into [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io) you might want to get acquainted
with some of the key concepts of the service. This document provides an
introduction to those concepts and common [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io)
terminology. Reading this document will help you gain a more general understanding of the
log and stream processor.

- Event or Record
- Filtering
- Tag
- Timestamp
- Match
- Structured Message

## Event or Record

Every incoming piece of data that belongs to a log or a metric that's retrieved by

> Fluent Bit is considered an _Event_ or a _Record_.

Author: I don't know, and the way this was initially written, it feels like it has specific meaning for this software. Figuring that out is way beyond the scope of my task here, which is why I left it.

## Filtering

You might need to perform modifications on the Event's content. The process to alter,
append to, or drop Events is called [_filtering_](data-pipeline/filter.md).

Use filtering to:

- Append specific information to the Event like an IP address or metadata.
- Select a specific piece of the Event content.
- Drop Events that match a certain pattern.

## Tag

> Every Event ingested by Fluent Bit is assigned a Tag. This tag is an internal string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Event ingested by Fluent Bit is assigned a tag. This tag is an internal string
```
same thing here about common nouns

Author: same thought as before, I don't know if this is common or not.

used in a later stage by the Router to decide which Filter or
[Output](data-pipeline/output.md) phase it must go through.

Most tags are assigned manually in the configuration. If a tag isn't specified,
Fluent Bit assigns the name of the [Input](data-pipeline/input.md) plugin
instance where that Event was generated from.

{% hint style="info" %}
The [Forward](../pipeline/inputs/forward.md) input plugin doesn't assign tags. This
plugin speaks the Fluentd wire protocol called Forward where every Event already
comes with a Tag associated. Fluent Bit will always use the incoming Tag set by the
client.
{% endhint %}

> A tagged record must always have a Matching rule. To learn more about Tags and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A tagged record must always have a `Matching` rule. To learn more about Tags and
```
not sure if a code block is the best approach here but I feel like something is needed because otherwise the capitalization by itself sticks out

> Matches, see [Routing](data-pipeline/router.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matches, see [Routing](data-pipeline/router.md).
```

## Timestamp

> The timestamp represents the time an Event was created. Every Event contains a
> timestamp associated. A timestamp always exists, and is set by the Input plugin or
> discovered through a data parsing process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The timestamp represents the time an Event was created. Every Event contains an
associated timestamps. All events have timestamps, and they're set by the input plugin or
discovered through a data parsing process.
```

The timestamp is a numeric fractional integer in the format:

```javascript
SECONDS.NANOSECONDS
```

where:

- `_Seconds_` is the number of seconds that have elapsed since the Unix epoch.

> - `_Nanoseconds_` is a fractional second or one thousand-millionth of a second.

Reviewer: should "seconds" and "nanoseconds" be capitalized here to match the example above? or is that not necessary

Author: Oh, yah they should be, I didn't fix them in editing.

## Match

> Fluent Bit lets you deliver your collected and processed Events to one or multiple
> destinations through a routing phase. A _Match_ represents a rule to select Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fluent Bit lets you route your collected and processed Events to one or multiple
destinations. A _Match_ represents a rule to select Events
```

where a Tag matches a defined rule.

To learn more about Tags and Matches, see [Routing](data-pipeline/router.md).

## Structured messages

Source events can have a structure. A structure defines a set of `keys` and `values`
inside the Event message to implement faster operations on data modifications.

> Fluent Bit handles every Event message as a structured message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fluent Bit treats every Event message as a structured message.
```

Consider the following two messages:

> - No structured message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unstructured message
```

Author: technically accurate, but I don't know if it's semantically accurate. It -has- a structure, it just doesn't have an additional imposed structure

  ```javascript
  "Project Fluent Bit created on 1398289291"
  ```

> - With a structured message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Structured message
```
